.Dd October 11, 2014
.Dt TERMBOY_SCREEN \&3 "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME
.Nm termboy_screen
.Nd graphics routines for text mode consoles
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In termboy.h
.Fn "int tb_screen_init" "int pixel_size"
.Fn "void tb_screen_size" "int *width" "int *height"
.Fn "void tb_screen_color" "enum tb_color color" "int value"
.Fn "int tb_screen_put" "int x" "int y" "enum tb_color color"
.Fn "int tb_screen_flush" "void"
.Fn "int tb_screen_restore" "void"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Before drawing anything to the screen,
.Fn tb_screen_init
must be called to initialize the display. It accepts a single argument,
.Fa pixel_size ,
which specifies the height and width of the displayed pixels (measured in
physical pixels).  Valid values range between 1 and 8.
.Pp
.Fn tb_screen_size
stores the current screen dimensions in the integers pointed to by
.Fa width
and
.Fa height .
If the screen has not yet been initialized, both dimensions will be set to
zero.
.Pp
The Linux console is capable of displaying sixteen distinct colors, which can
be customized by calling
.Fn tb_screen_color .
The
.Fa color
argument refers to one of the sixteen colors to be redefined, such as
.Dv TB_COLOR_RED .
Its color content will be set according to the 24-bit RGB
.Fa value .
.Pp
To draw a pixel on the screen, call
.Fn tb_screen_put
with the desired coordinates and color of the pixel.
.Fa x
and
.Fa y
specify the location of the pixel relative to the top-left corner of the
screen.
.Pp
For performance reasons, draws to the screen are buffered.  As a result,
newly drawn pixels will not necessarily be immediately visible.  Calling
.Fn tb_screen_flush
will force the screen to be updated.
.Pp
All programs should be sure to call
.Fn tb_screen_restore
before exiting.  If a program happens to crash before it has a chance to
restore the screen, the
.Xr setfont 8
command can be run from a "blind" state to make the tty usable again.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return zero.  Functions with a
.Ft void
return type will always succeed.
